---
date: 2023-09-18
type: note
tags: 
---
Martha J. Farah's article "An Ethics Toolbox for Neurotechnology," proposes several frameworks (as I call them) that interest me. First, the emphasis on deontological ethics is important to consider when designing neurotechnology. This principle says that the value of a person is priceless in comparison to objects, and is a good ethical guideline to abide by when designing bioengineering or neuroengineering projects. Especially in neuroengineering where the potential for harm is always there, you have to ensure that a person’s safety. The principle of benefits and non-maleficence is also somewhat interesting to me as it basically limits any actions that might devalue human life, so when designing a product you have to keep this in mind. Products should be safe and effective but also genuinely contribute to human well-being. Finally, the idea of consequentialism resonates with me too. I know a lot of projects in bioengineering bring a lot of ethical complexities (like listening into your thoughts!), so a cost-benefit analysis for every decision is essential when planning bioengineering projects. It is not about what's most practical or economically viable but about taking in the value of human life. And thus, decisions that are "cost-effective" but ethically and morally compromising should never be attempted in bioengineering projects.

User-centered design (UCD) or value-sensitive design (VSD) are very important frameworks to keep in mind when designing new technologies, particularly within the Neuroengineering, Assistive, and Rehabilitation Technologies (NARTs). UCD focuses on end-users and their needs at every phase of the design process, which essentially ensures that technologies serve their intended purpose and audience and are not based on generalized information. To me, this is super super relevant and important in NARTs, given the oftentimes specific nature and objectives of these applications. For example, perhaps technologies for people with neurological conditions should cater to the unique needs and preferences of these individuals to ensure optimal usability and effectiveness, and not cater towards the general public. Seems obvious but some design choices may not reflect that. VSD focuses on broader ethical and societal values than its users. It basically ensures human values are maintained when designing new technology, ensuring that there aren’t some weird or infringing moral or ethical implications. In NARTs, VSD could be very important in ensuring designers and developers to consider broader ethical concerns such as privacy. For example, new technology that reads your brain should not be capturing all your thoughts because it is an invasion of your privacy. Therefore, if people use both UCD and VSD in the PED framework, designers and developers will strike a balance between meeting user needs and addressing broader ethical concerns. Overall, this would ensure ethically grounded and user-centric technological innovations, which would be great to see in the future.